We're starting off with this simple form here where we can file a complaint for example, where we
get a couple of input fields and at the bottom, we want to output the data the user entered. At the beginning,
I'll output the data right away so that we can always see what we entered
and thereafter, I will change this such that this data field is only displayed once we hit submit here, this button.
So we'll start hooking up this form step by step, walking our way through all these input fields and
learning about the different options
vuejs forms offer us.
Let's start with the top, with normal text input field,
this email input field. I want to hook this up to a property in my code so that I can see what the user
entered there and use that in my code to validate or whatever I want to do with that,
so I'll start with that. The html representation of this mail input field is this here, it's normal input
field with some bootstrap classes,
overall I do have some bootstrap classes here and you can find this html code attached to this
lecture so that you can start with the same code
I do have here.
Well this input, that is the one I want to hook up to a property in my vue instance,
well right now, my vue instance is an empty object down there.
Notice I'm in the app.vue file but that is a normal setup where I rendered this file, so no components,
just this root instance.
Well in here, I now want to create some, well some properties,
first of all I want to set up the data and I'll use this syntax here where I write it as an ES6
function as it is just a function in the end, we wrote it like this before where we can also well take
the shorter route here and just write that as an ES6 function.
It doesn't change that,
here we return an object which then represents our data.
Now in this object here, I want to have an email property let's say and by default, that shall be empty,
now how do I hook up my html input field here with that property down there in my data field?
We use v-model for that,
so the way to do that is to add v-model, two-way data binding therefore and then simply say email here
since that is the property name it shows down there.
Now you might correctly ask well if it's two-way binding, how do I ensure that I bind the correct direction
so that the user type something
and I update the property and that if I update the property in some other place, let's say I click a button
that should pre-populate this input field, that it does this in this direction and not override
it because the input field already has a value.
The short answer is vuejs will figure this out automatically,
that might sound kind of magical but basically vuejs simply checks what's the source of the editing.
If we type in the input field, the property, the code will be overwritten,
if we change this property from some other place, let's say by clicking a button, the input in the or the value
in the input will be overwritten,
this is how that works.
Now with the input field being bound, I can now go to my user data at the bottom there and simply output
e-mail
here with string interpolation,
so with these double curly braces. Now after saving this, we'll see that if I head over there, we don't
see a value there but as soon as I enter a test email address, we do see it down there in our data field
too,
this is how easy you can hook up as a normal input field to our property.
We've seen this before,
it's normal two way data binding but that is how you handle forms.
Now of course throughout this model here, I'll dive into other types of form controls as well and also show you which
additional features vuejs offers us when it comes to listening to such inputs.